Sveta is a little girl. She is only 5. She is a very nice girl with fair hair and blue eyes. She likes to sing and dance. She also likes to get presents.
Today is the 31st of December. She is waiting for Santa Claus. She has a New Year’s tree with the candles lighted.
At last Santa Claus comes and says, “Hello, Sveta. I have a present for you.” He puts his hand into his red bag and takes out a lovely kitten.
Sveta is very happy. She says, “Thank you, Santa Claus.”
Sveta has a kitten now. He is red. He is only one month. He cannot eat or drink yet. Grandmother asks Sveta, “What is his name?” Sveta doesn’t know. Then she says, “Let’s call
 him Ginger.” Now the kitten has the name but he doesn’t know it. He only sleeps all day long. Grandfather says, “Let him sleep! Soon he will be a big and handsome cat.”
And so he was.
Vladik is a very curious boy. He is six. He doesn’t go to school yet. He likes to taste everything but only once. In summer he and his father live in the country. Father takes him to the river every day. They have a boat and fishing rods. They are anglers. Vladik knows that fish like worms. So when father puts a worm on the hook Vladik wants to taste it.
 Suddenly his father hears that Vladik is crying. “What’s the matter?” asks he. Vladik points to the worm and says, “The worm is not tasty, Dad.”
 Alfred is a big old dog. Fred is a young cat. Fred likes Alfred but not all the time.
Fred likes to climb trees and now he is on a tree, too. Alfred cannot climb. He sees Fred and barks loudly. Fred climbs to the top of the tree. He can see everything: a house, a park, and a lake in the park. He sees a man fishing. Fred likes to eat fish. He wants to go to the park and tries to go down. But it is very difficult. Fred mews but Alfred cannot hear him. Then Fred sees a nut on the tree. He takes the nut into his mouth and drops it. The nut falls on Alfred’s head and he stops barking. He hears Fred. Fred needs help. Alfred runs to the house to get help.
 One minute later everyone comes to help Fred. The little boy climbs up the tree and Fred jumps into his hands. Fred thinks, “Alfred can’t hear well. But anyway he is my best friend.
 Leonid is a boy of seven. His father and mother speak Eng­ lish to him but his grandmother doesn’t know English. One day Leonid sees a sunflower and says in English, “Granny! It is a sunflower!” But she doesn’t understand him. He goes to his father and mother and says, “Granny doesn’t understand me!” Then father says, “Go and explain to her.” Leonid re­ turns to his grandmother. He points to the flower and to the sun. Then he says in Russian, “Это солнечный цветок”. She understands. Leonid is happy. He can translate!
 Today is the 1st of September. All children go to school. Vladik goes to school for the first time. At school the children meet their teacher. Her name is Olga Aleksandrovna. She says, “Good morning, children. I want to teach you to read, write and count”. The children are eager to study.
Vladik returns home from school. His brother asks him, “Do you like school?” “Yes, I do”, says Vladik. “What do you like best at school?” asks father. “My uniform”, answers Vladik.
Teacher: Vladik, your homework about your cat is very much like your brother’s story. How is that?
Vladik: Nothing strange about that, we have only one cat at home.
Leonid is very clever. He is doing at school well and reads very much. His favourite subject is English. He reads a lot of books in English and learns to retell the most interesting stories. Leonid likes best to read about animals, the jungle, famous travellers, adventures, discoveries; he likes to read funny stories, too.
One rainy day a woman with a dog gets on a bus. The dog is very big and his paws are very dirty.
The woman asks, “Conductor, if I pay for my dog, can he have a seat like the other passengers?”
The conductor looks at the dog and then says, “Certainly. He can have a seat like all the other passengers, if he doesn’t put his feet on the seat”.
Sveta studies at the gymnasium. She studies French and English. She can speak and read two languages. Once her English teacher says, “Children, you know the alphabet and many words. Soon we are going to write a dictation. And now learn a very short text:
“The boy is in the bed. The egg is in the eggcup. Where is the clock? The clock is on the wall. Where is the apple? The apple is on the plate and the plate is on the table. The cat is under the umbrella. The mouse is under the umbrella, too. ”
Then the teacher says, “Learn this text at home, please.” Sveta comes home and starts crying. “What’s the matter?” asks her grandmother. “I can’t write dictations. It is very  difficult.” Grandmother says, “Learn the text sentence by sentence. It’s so simple.” Every 15 minutes Sveta writes one sentence. In 2 hours she knows the text by heart. The teacher gives her a “five”. Sveta is happy. Now she knows how to prepare herself to write a dictation. And grandmother says, “No pains, no gains”.
A Crow sits in a tree. She has a large piece of cheese in her mouth. She wants to eat it, but suddenly she sees a Fox. The Fox comes up to the tree. She looks up and sees the Crow. And she also sees the cheese. The Fox wants to get the cheese.
She says, “How beautiful you are, Mrs. Crow! What big eyes you have! What a pity you cannot sing.”
 “You are wrong, I can sing. Car-r! Car-r!”
The Crow opens her mouth, the piece of cheese falls down. The Fox runs up to the cheese and quickly eats it up. “Thank you very much,” says she. “The cheese is good
and you sing well. What a pity you cannot think well.”
An old Tiger lives in the jungle. Every day he asks one of the animals to bring him something to eat.
One morning he sees a Monkey and says, “I am hungry, Monkey Go to the village and bring me a fat piglet.”
“Oh, Tiger,” cries the Monkey. “I cannot do that. There is another tiger, who is younger and stronger than you are. He tells me not to bring you anything. He is so fierce that I’m afraid of him.”
“What?!” growls the old Tiger. “Show me that tiger. I want to speak to him.”
“Come with me,” says the Monkey. “I know where he lives.”
The Tiger and the Monkey go to a large river.
“Now look into the water,” says the Monkey. “Do you see there in the river the head, the white teeth and the large yellow eyes of another tiger?”
 “Yes, I do,” cries the old Tiger. “I want to eat him up!” And with these words he jumps into the river, and the Monkey sees him no more.
 In hot countries the woods are not like our woods. They are great dark forests, where the trees grow so closely together and are so tall, that if you look up, you will not be able to see the sky in some places.